   2IN2320 - Perspective on Key Social Issues       Instructors: Cynthia Colmellere  Department: DÉPARTEMENT SCIENCES HUMAINES ET SOCIALES  Language of instruction: ANGLAIS, FRANCAIS  Campus: CAMPUS DE RENNES, CAMPUS DE PARIS - SACLAY, CAMPUS DE METZ  Workload (HEE): 45  On-site hours (HPE): 27,00      Description    The main objective of this seminar is to help students orient their actions in  the face of "major contemporary challenges".   To this end, the courses propose knowledge and methodologies of  psychology, sociology, political science, economics, history, and  anthropology to help students :   •  Understand and analyze issues related to contemporary   environmental, human, and social problems. For example: global  warming, energy challenges, social justice, participation of civil  society.   •  Understand the effects of human practices on the natural, economic   and social environment   •  Understand the ethical, political, social, and economic dimensions of   the engineer's actions concerning these issues.    Quarter number  Intensive week of SG6 and SG8     Prerequisites (in terms of CS courses)  none     Syllabus    •  Courses include:  •  Business, Fraud, and Deviance: Managerial and Sociological   •  Exclusion/Inclusion in Contemporary Societies: The Social Science   Perspectives   Perspective   •  The media: socio-technical devices of social control?    Class components (lecture, labs, etc.)  The courses  alternate theoretical contributions, case studies, and  situational exercises.   646      The materials used are varied: texts (scientific articles), videos, podcasts.       Grading  Written essay to be delivered within ten days after the end of the course  (at least 50% of the final mark)• Oral participation and presentations•  Individual and team works.      Resources  The courses are given in classes of a maximum of thirty students by a  teacher specialized in the proposed subject.      Description of the skills acquired at the end of the course     •  Analytical skills: knowing how to identify the different components  and actors of the situation, examining them in order to understand  the relationships between them, bringing out non-obvious links.   •  Ability to synthesize: synthesize the elements of a situation, identify   the points of support and the difficulties.    647   