   2IN4000 - Business Games       Instructors: Xavier Leon  Department: DÉPARTEMENT SCIENCES HUMAINES ET SOCIALES  Language of instruction: ANGLAIS, FRANCAIS  Campus: CAMPUS DE PARIS - SACLAY, CAMPUS DE RENNES, CAMPUS DE METZ  Workload (HEE): 40  On-site hours (HPE): 30,00      Description  The business games offer a practical, playful and synthetic approach to  economics, management and psychosociology. They are an experience in  collective decision-making, team interdependence and organization,  conflict management, role taking and personal positioning in a group. The  main objectives are:  - Discover the company and its main functions  - Introduction to management and accounting  - Experiment and become aware of the processes that develop in a  teamwork (decision, organization, etc.)  - Analyse its contribution to the working group     Quarter number  Intensive week before the ST5     Prerequisites (in terms of CS courses)  Basic management knowledge and group work experience are useful     Syllabus  Business games are simulations of the lives of several companies  competing in the same market. A game unit consists of 5 or 6 teams of 5 or  6 players each.  Each player has a particular responsibility: production, finance, human  resources, marketing, general management. At the beginning, the situation  of companies is identical. The task of each team is to analyse this initial  situation and make decisions: sales, production, price, etc. objectives. The  decisions of each team, aggregated and compared with each other, then  shape a new market state where the situations of companies differ. The  analysis of this new situation gives rise to new decisions and several cycles  follow one another.     Class components (lecture, labs, etc.)  The games take place over 4 consecutive days, alternating simulation and  debriefing sequences.   652         Grading  Three dimensions are taken into account in the evaluation of the games: -  Acquired knowledge in economics and management and in the human and  social sciences - Participation (leadership, involvement in the role) - The  quality of the analyses during debriefings, both in terms of  strategy/management and team lifebeyond a day of unjustified absence,  students do not validate the business game      Resources  Teaching team (names of the teachers of the lectures): There are two types  of teachers: the facilitators in charge of the game sessions and the  specialists (SHS) in charge of the discussion and debriefing sessions     Learning outcomes covered on the course  - Understand the vocabulary of business management  - Understand the conditions of growth and difficulties of a company  - Understand the usefulness of summary accounting documents  - Understand the interdependence between strategy and operational  decisions  - Understand the articulations of functions in a group  - Understanding human phenomena occurring in a group  - Identify your personal contribution in a team     653   