   2EL2220 - Organizational and market theories       Instructors: Yannick PEREZ  Department: DÉPARTEMENT SCIENCES HUMAINES ET SOCIALES  Language of instruction: FRANCAIS  Campus: CAMPUS DE PARIS - SACLAY  Workload (HEE): 60  On-site hours (HPE): 35,00  Elective Category : Business Sciences  Advanced level : No      Description  The object of this course is the analysis of organizations, based on the tools  of  the  enlarged  microeconomics.  Like  other  fields  of  application  in  economics,  Organizational  economics  has  experienced  sustained  development  over  the  past  20  years.  The  economics  of  organizations  involves  the  use  of  economic  analysis  and  its  methods  to  understand  the  existence, nature, 'design' and performance of organizations. The economic  analysis of organizations is carried out in comparison with the markets and  it covers, beyond the firm, organizational forms of great diversity (unions,  social movements, agencies, schools, ...).     Quarter number  SG6     Prerequisites (in terms of CS courses)  This course is given only in French, and all the materials are also in French.     Syllabus   1. Introduction  2. Chapter 1: Diversity of modes of organization in a market economy   a. Markets as a structuring mode of production and trade  b. Integrated organizations and the nature of the firm.  c.. Hybrid forms  d. The problem of arbitration between modes of organization   3. Chapter 2: Modes of coordination   a. Information processes  b. The role of contracts  c. Nature and function of hierarchy   4. Chapter 3. Incentives and motivations   198      a. Incentives: basic models  b. Incentives linked to the properties of the modes of  organization   5. Conclusion     Class components (lecture, labs, etc.)   The course is made up of two parts:  A first where the tools of economic theory of organizations are presented.  The second where they are implemented by student group projects  working on typical situation in terms of Economics of organization     Grading  The assessment consists of two exercises.  The first is a presentation of a typical situation in a student group. This  work represents 60% of the final grade.  The last is a table assignment composed of 4 questions on the essential  concepts of the course. This work represents 40% of the final grade.     Course support, bibliography   Brousseau Eric - Glachant Jean-Michel, New Institutional Economics A  Guidebook CUP Press.  Gibbons Robert & Roberts John, The Hanbook of Organisational Economics,  Princeton.     Resources  Students must come with their laptops.  This year only one group will be open for 33 students.     Learning outcomes covered on the course    •  Understand the challenges of creation, development and operation   of economic organizations.   •  Acquire the tools of contract theory  •  Find out how to build incentives and coordinate teams  •  Understand the determinants of the choice of organizational forms   adapted to economic activities.    Description of the skills acquired at the end of the course  At the end of this course, the students will understand why economic  organizations work or not.  They will understand the problems of hierarchical management, principal  agent, moral hazards and adverse selection. They will have analyzed  incentive and remuneration systems and will have analytical tools to  understand inter-industry relationships.   199   