   2IN5020 - Semiconductor innovation       Instructors: Tanguy Phulpin  Department: DÉPARTEMENT SYSTÈMES D'ÉNERGIE ÉLECTRIQUE  Language of instruction: FRANCAIS  Campus: CAMPUS DE PARIS - SACLAY  Workload (HEE): 40  On-site hours (HPE): 27,00  Elective Category : Engineering Sciences  Advanced level : No      Description   Welcome in the semiconductors area. This domain has a really strong  impact on our lives and future innovation requires new topologies, new  improvements, new researchers. To understand what are the challenges, it  is fundamental to possess the basics and to handle them.    After several industrial conferences the 24th November afternoon, and  after 6 hours of lesson the 28th November, let's start in C2n and GeePs  laboratory for realization, characterization and simulation.   The Friday is booked for data analyses and report redaction     Quarter number  Intensive week  SG6     Prerequisites (in terms of CS courses)  none     Syllabus  Energy band model will be described in this lesson. You will study the  different semiconductors interfaces with a focus on a PN junction and the  FET effect. You will be able to understand how a bipolar transistor or a  MOSFET or a solar cell is working. You will estimate the main  characteristics of semi-conductors to be able to understand what are the  requirement of this domain.  Then the group will be divided in 3, and you will work one day on MOSFET  fabrication, one day on electrical characterization and one day on  simulation       Class components (lecture, labs, etc.)  A conference the Thursday afternoon one week before. Then the lesson  takes place the Monday before going into laboratories to work on the   657      project. The Friday is free for report redaction     Grading  report      Resources    •  Teaching staff (instructor(s) names): P. Molinié, T. Phulpin  •  Maximum enrollment: 9 binomes, 18 students      Learning outcomes covered on the course  Basics in semi-conductor physic: Energy Band, Electric field, Current  density, Field-Effect transistors, PN junction, photovoltaic cell     Description of the skills acquired at the end of the course   After the short lesson, students will understand the basic knowledge of  semiconductors technology.   They will meet professionals, and work in laboratories. They will work on  new topics with high technology measurement tools.   658   