   2EL1720 - Distributions and operators       Instructors: Pauline Lafitte  Department: DÉPARTEMENT MATHÉMATIQUES  Language of instruction: FRANCAIS  Campus: CAMPUS DE PARIS - SACLAY  Workload (HEE): 60  On-site hours (HPE): 35,00  Elective Category : Fundamental Sciences  Advanced level : Yes      Description  The  goal  of  this  theoretical  course  is  to  go  back  to  the  sources  of  the  concepts  of  functional  analysis  that  were  introduced  in  the  Analysis  and  Partial Differential Equations courses in first year.  Historically, the distributions and the operators were introduced to provide  a formal mathematical frame for problems arising in Physics. In this way, the  concepts  of  functions  were  generalized  into  a  theory  that  allows  to  treat  rigorously fundamental questions of analysis (exchanging limits, exchanging  limits and integrals, Fourier transform)...  These concepts provide an answer to the main question : in which functional  space do we have to search for the solution of the problem so that it is wellposed, that is, it admits one and only one solution that depends continuously  on the data ? In particular, the concept of (general) topology on such spaces  plays an essential role in the study of the question of continuity and, more  generally, the question of convergence. Depending on the considered cases,  they can be defined by a distance, a norm, a family of semi-norms...  In the general frame of the stochastic processes (or random functions), the  distributions  and  the  operators are the  basic  mathematical tools to  study  Gaussian  processes  or  extensions  of  the  classical  Brownian  motion.  The  concepts  introduced  in  this  course  constitute  the  basis  of  the  spectral  or  integral  representation  of  these  processes,  which  allow  their  fine  study  (geometric  property,  Markov  property,  definition  of  a  stochastic  integral,  etc.)     Quarter number  SG6     Prerequisites (in terms of CS courses)  CIPPDE     Syllabus   This course of fundamental mathematics is organized around the  theoretical study of the following notions:   126      •  Hahn-Banach's theorems  •  Unbounded operators  •  Weak topologies  •  Advanced concepts of distributions   For each of these subjects, the main results are rigorously proved on the  blackboard.       Class components (lecture, labs, etc.)  Lectures during which the concepts and results are introduced and proved  on the blackboard. These are complemented by tutorials.     Grading  Homeworks, Personal project, Written midterm exam: 1.5 hr, Written final  exam: 2 hr ; no documents allowed.     Course support, bibliography  Partial solutions of the exercises.     Resources   Lecturer: Pauline Lafitte   Labs: Alexandre Richard  One lab group     Learning outcomes covered on the course  Mastering the theoretical bases of functional analysis: the students will  have all the required qualities of rigorous reasoning that are necessary for  modeling and analyzing mathematically.     Description of the skills acquired at the end of the course  C1: Analyze, design and build complex systems with scientific,  technological, human and economic components  C2.1: Deepen a field of engineering sciences or a scientific discipline  C2.2: Import knowledge from other fields or disciplines  C2.3: Identify and acquire independently new knowledge and skills  C7.1: Structure ideas and arguments, be synthetic (assumptions,  objectives, expected results, approach, and value created)    This course gives an important basis for students who want to attend a  Master 2 connected to fundamental mathematics (for instance in Analysis,  Partial Differential Equations or Probability).   127   