      ST5 - 62 - ENERGY INTELLIGENCE    AND SMART BUILDING     Dominante :  GSI (Large  Interacting Systems)  and SCOC (Communicating Systems  and Connected Objects)  Langue d’enseignement : French with specific modalities to allow the adaptation  of students with a low level in French: all the materials are in English, the tutorials,  the  practical  work  as  well  as  the  integration  teaching  are  provided  in  English.  Support sessions in English are also scheduled.  Campus où le cours est proposé : Rennes     Engineering problem   Buildings  must  no  longer  be  considered  as  simple  consumers, but  as  true  energy  players,  fully  integrated  into  their  ecosystems,  and  must  be  fully  integrated into a renewed vision of society, where comfort and health are in  harmony  with  energy  management.  To  do  this,  we  need  to  rethink  the  systems  that  make  up  the  building,  through  new  control  functions  and  stronger  interactions  with  the  occupants.  The  "building"  ecosystem  is  complex,  because  it  is  made  up  of  a  heterogeneous  set  of  systems:  local  production, storage, supply, sale, and the various equipment, which must be  coordinated for optimized management.   The engineer's challenges are first to analyze the needs and to specify the  intelligent control systems. This design is based on the integration of control  algorithms  deployed  on  communicating  systems  to  achieve  an  optimal  compromise  between  technology  -  cost  -  efficiency,  such  as  closed-loop  performance,  communication  frequency  and  protocol,  sensor  autonomy  and actuator lifetime.   Adviced prerequisites   None   Context  and  issue  modules :  This  part  is  organized  around  several  conferences that should give students the keys to understanding the major  issues associated with this thematic sequence. Starting with the industrial  issues: what are the needs of today and tomorrow, in terms of services and  technologies: challenges and scientific obstacles. Then presentation of the  difficulties encountered for the capture of heterogeneous data from which  we can perform analyses and exploit these data.   Knowledge  contributions  will  be  given  to  understand  the  needs  and  the  heterogeneity to be taken into account for the management of comforts (air   476      quality,  thermal  comfort,  ...).  Finally,  a  last  intervention  will  present  the  "Research" point of view around intelligent buildings.   Specific course (60 HEE) : Students will be required to choose from one of  the following two specific courses:    Option 1: Energy-efficient communications   Brief  description:  With  a  global  electricity  consumption  of  6  to  10%  corresponding  to  4%  of  greenhouse  gas  emissions,  ICST  (Information  and  Communication  Sciences  and  Technologies)  must  rethink  the  way  they  transmit, process and store data. The arrival of 5G (5th Generation mobile)  and the explosion of connected objects (Internet of Things) suggest that the  sector will continue to grow strongly in the coming years, making it all the  more urgent to offer more environmentally friendly communications. The  need  for  spectral  efficiency  (transmitting  a  given  data  rate  in  a  given  bandwidth)  must  then  be  combined  with  a  strong  energy  efficiency  constraint (transmitting while consuming as little as possible). This course  provides  training  in  digital  communication  concepts  and  tools  for  which  energy efficiency is explicitly taken into account.   Option 2: System architecture and modeling   Brief description: Today's systems are increasingly complex. This complexity  comes from the complexity of their structure and the interactions between  the different components, the increase and the complexity of the exchanged  data, the heterogeneity of concepts, substances, trades, standards, but also  the human complexity (organization, ergonomics, psychology, sociology...).  In order to better control this complexity, it is often necessary to rely on a  modeling of the different artifacts of the system. This modeling allows, at  different phases of the system's life, to better understand the needs it must  meet, to structure its architecture, to make analyses in order to predict its  behavior and thus to make a justified choice between several solutions. The  different  models  constitute  a  common  reference  for  the  different  parties  involved in the design of the system. The objective of this course is to train  students  to  model  and  structure  a  system  architecture.  Technological  systems will be privileged with domains such as avionics, railways, industry,  health, energy etc. Emphasis will also be placed on the ability to identify the  characteristic  performance  the  design,  implementation, operation and management of complex systems.   attributes   essential   in   Challenge Week 1:  Hierarchical management of thermal comfort   Associated partner: Delta Dore (to be confirmed)   - Location: Rennes campus   477         - Brief description : The objective is to define a modular system, allowing the  implementation of hierarchical control strategies between a local regulation  of  comfort  per  zone  and  a  supervisor  managing  the  intermittence  of  the  occupation,  the  limitation  of  available  power  in  order  to  minimize  the  consumption  related  to  thermal  comfort.  The  challenges  induced  by  this  project are the consideration of societal issues (human, comfort and energy  efficiency), technical constraints (power limitation, ease of implementation  and  robustness  of  the  solution)  and  the  technologies  allowing  the  implementation. The different groups will have to collaborate to address the  different aspects of the project and to achieve a proof of concept.   Challenge Week 2:  Remote control of thermal comfort   Associated partner: Delta Dore (to be confirmed)   - Location: Rennes campus   -  Brief  description  :  In  the  context  of thermal  renovation, remote  control  solutions are often much more straightforward to deploy than solutions that  require  running  new  cables  through  the  walls.  The  objective  of  this  integration  course  is  to  realize  the  whole  remote  control  system  for  the  heating  of  several  the  actual  implementation of the communication system between the controller and  the  heating  devices.  Groups  will  compete  to  find  the  most  relevant  technological  solution  while  integrating  economic  and  ecological  dimensions.   rooms.  This   realization   requires      478   