   2SC7510 - Managing and optimising industrial flows       Instructors: Guillaume LAMÉ  Department: DÉPARTEMENT GÉNIE INDUSTRIEL ET OPÉRATIONS  Language of instruction: FRANCAIS  Campus: CAMPUS DE PARIS - SACLAY  Workload (HEE): 60  On-site hours (HPE): 34,50      Description    Production flows in factories, patient flows in hospitals, customer flows in  supermarkets: understanding and managing flows is an issue in all industrial  activities.  Beyond  specific  issues,  flow  management  is  an  overarching  approach that can be adapted in many industrial situations.    Understanding  and  controlling  flows  is  a  major  component  of  industrial  performance.  This  module  provides  an  introduction  to  industrial  flow  management. The use of discrete event simulation to tackle these issues is  presented.     Quarter number  ST7     Prerequisites (in terms of CS courses)  none     Syllabus   Principles of discrete-event simulation of systems of industrial flows.   Use of Simul8 for discrete-event simulation.  Optimisation of flow systems.  Use of OptQuest coupled to Simul8 for simulaiton-optimisation.  Perspectives on the industriel implementation of these techniques.  Industrial case studies.     Class components (lecture, labs, etc.)   The module will comprise lectures, either presential or as videos and  reading assignments to prepare individually, and study cases and exercises.    Grading   90 minutes written exam.  Assignment.  The overall mark will be 50% for the final exam and 50% for the  assignment.   531         Course support, bibliography  Exercises and study cases, lecture notes, videos.    Textbook for this course: Robinson S. Simulation the practice of model  development and use. 2nd ed. London: Palgrave Macmillan 2014.       Resources     Discrete-event simulation software Simul8, and the extension OptQuest for  simulation-optimisation.    Simul8 only exists for Windows. Students using Mac OS will need to install a  virtual machine, which may slow down the simulation softare and  compromise its general usability.    Lectures, videos, exercises and industrial study-cases.     Learning outcomes covered on the course   After this module, students will be able to use simulation and optimisation  approaches to understand and improve the performance of a flow system.    This course will address the following competencies:    •  C1 Analysing, designing and realising complex systems with  scientific, technological, human and economic components    o  C1.2 Using and developping relevant models, choosing the   righjt modelling scale and simplifying hypotheses to address  the problem   o  C1.3 Resolving the problem through approximating,   simulating and experimenting   •  C2 Developing specific knowledge of a scientific or industrial   domain et a professional domain    o  C2.1 Exploring a scientific or engineering domain or discipline   •  C3 Acting, innovating in a scientific and technological environment  o  C3.6 Evaluating the effectiveness, feasibility and robustness   of proposed solutions      Description of the skills acquired at the end of the course  Use of discrete-event simulation for modelling industrial systems, and  implementation on Simul8.  532   