      ST5 - 63 - SMART AND EMBEDDED SYSTEMS    FOR HEALTH   (Grands  Systèmes  en     Dominante :  GSI  Environnement) et SCOC (Systèmes Communicants et Objets Connectés)  Teaching  language:  French  with  specific  modalities  to  allow  the  adaptation  of  students with a low level in French: most course materials are in English and the  integration teaching is provided in both English and French.  Campus where the course is offered: Rennes     Interaction),  VSE   (Vivant-Santé    Engineering Problem    Technological advances in terms of the measuring elements miniaturization  and  the  control  of  physiological  quantities  allow  new  solutions  for  patient  care: substitution for the control of defective organs, continuous, automated,  and patient-adapted delivery of treatments. On the other hand, integrating  digital  communication  capabilities  between  these  control  elements  and  connected  everyday  objects  (smartphones,  tablets,  etc.)  opens  new  opportunities for better patient involvement and doctor monitoring.  The societal stakes are apparent, both in terms of improved health and daily  comfort for the patient and reduced risk of severe pathologies in the longer  term.   For the engineer, the challenge is to offer a reliable integrated solution that is  easy to use and adjust, low in energy consumption, and easily adaptable to a  wide variety of patients.     Prerequisites   None   Context  and  challenges  modules:  This  part  is  organized  around  several  lectures that should give the students the keys to understand the significant  issues associated with this thematic sequence. The following aspects will be  addressed:  the  medical  aspects  of  diabetes  treatment,  the  problem  of  embedded  for  health,  the  ethical,  social  and  human  aspects  through  the  influence of connected objects, the security of personal data, the impact of  antennas.   Specific course (60 HEE,FR): Energy-efficient communications   -  Short  description:    With  a  global  electricity  consumption  of  6  to  10%,  corresponding  to  4%  of  greenhouse  gas  emissions,  ICST  (Information  and  Communications Sciences and Technologies) must rethink how they transmit,   488         process, and store data. The arrival of  5G (5th Generation mobiles) and the  explosion of connected objects (Internet of Things) suggest that the sector will  continue to grow very strongly in the next years, making it more urgent to  offer  more  environment-respectful  communications.  Spectral  efficiency  requirements  (transmitting  a  rate  within  a  given  bandwidth)  must  then  be  combined  with  an  intense  energy  efficiency  constraint  (transmitting  while  consuming  as  little  as  possible).  This  course  provides  training  in  digital  communication  concepts  and  tools  for  which  energy  efficiency  is  explicitly  taken into account.   Specific course (60 HEE,EN): System Architecure and Modeling   -  Short  description:  Modern  systems  are  becoming  more  and  more  complex.  This  complexity  results  from  the  interaction  between  their  components,  the  increase  and  complexity  of  the  exchanged  data,  the  heterogeneity  of  concepts,  substances,  trades,  standards,  but  also  from  human complexity (organization,ergonomics, psychology, sociology ...). To  better handle this complexity, it is often necessary to model the different  artifacts  of  the  system.  This  modeling  allows  stakeholders  at  different  phases of the system's life to better understand its objectives, to structure  its architecture, to make analyses to predict its behavior, and thus to make  a  justified  choice  between  alternatives.  The  various  models  constitute  a  reference  for  all  stakeholders  involved  in  the  system  design.  Thus,  the  objective  of  this  course  is  to  provide  students  techniques  and  tools  for  modeling and structuring system architectures. Technological systems will  be  privileged  with  fields  such  as  avionics,  railway,  industry,  energy,  or  health.  Moreover,  the  emphasis  will  be  made  in  identifying  system  performance  attributes  (critical  SPI  system  performance  indicators)  that  need to be monitored to design, implement, operate, or manage complex  systems.   Integration teaching: Smart system for personalized blood glucose control   -  Associated partner: CHU Rennes - Diabetology Department.   -  Location: Campus of Rennes   -  Short description:  The objective is to propose a system to help regulate  blood  sugar  levels  for  diabetic  patients.  This  system  must  respond  to  various issues: operational safety and comfort of use for the patient, digital  integration of control algorithms, ability to interact with control elements  (subcutaneous blood glucose sensor, micro-pump for insulin delivery, ...)  via  various  communication  protocols  and  low  energy  cost.  It  must  allow  local interaction with the patient and remote interaction with a doctor to  monitor biomedical data.   489   