   2SC5292 - Life support system for space missions   l’environnement  et       Instructors: Sihem Tebbani, Cristian-Felipe Puentes Mancipe  Department: DOMINANTE - VIVANT, SANTÉ, ENVIRONNEMENT, DOMINANTE -  GRANDS SYSTÈMES EN INTERACTION  Language of instruction: FRANCAIS  Campus: CAMPUS DE PARIS - SACLAY  Workload (HEE): 40  On-site hours (HPE): 27,00      Description   L'enseignement  Système  de  support  de  vie  pour  le  spatial  est  l'un  des  3  Enseignements d'Intégration (EI) qui concluent la Séquence Thématique n°5  (ST5)  Commande  de  bioprocédés  pour  les  biofabrications.    L’Agence spatiale Européenne (ESA) développe un système de support de  vie biorégénératif permettant aux astronautes de vivre de façon autonome,  sans ravitaillement de la Terre, lors de missions spatiales de longue durée.  Cet  enseignement  d’intégration  porte  sur  le  bioprocédé  qui  permet  de  régénérer  l’atmosphère  de  l’habitacle.  Il  s’agit  d’un  photobioréacteur  mettant en œuvre des microalgues qui consomment le CO2, produisent O2  et des compléments nutritifs.  L’objectif  est  de  modéliser  et  dimensionner  le  photobioréacteur  pour  5  astronautes en autonomie totale pendant 1000 jours, assurer le contrôle de  la  production  en  O2  via  le  transfert  de  lumière  pour  des  critères  ALiSSE  raisonnables (en lien avec la fiabilité de fonctionnement, la sécurité et les  risques  pour  l’équipage,  le  taux  et  l’efficacité  du  recyclage,  les  activités  requises pour l’équipage, la consommation d’énergie, l’encombrement et la  masse du système).    Quarter number  ST5     Prerequisites (in terms of CS courses)  There are no specific prerequisites.     Syllabus   •   Suivi de culture de microalgues et caractérisation de la cinétique de  croissance  •    Pré-dimensionnement du photobioréacteur  •    Modélisation multi-physique du photobioréacteur  •    Implémentation du modèle sur Simulink  •    Implémentation du couplage physique entre le photobioréacteur et  l’habitacle   378      •    Stratégie de commande du photobioréacteur  •    Implémentation de régulation sur Simulink  •    Tests de robustesse  •    Optimisation du dimensionnement et de la régulation    Class components (lecture, labs, etc.)  This training course is dedicated to Problem solving. Students will confront  the multiphysics aspects of bioprocesses. They will apply the concepts  introduced in the chemical engineering course of the ST5 and in the control  theory course of the common core.  The course is scheduled over 5 consecutive days. It begins with a half-day  project launch (7/11/2022 morning). During the week, the students work in  groups of 4 and are supervised by a team of teachers from LGPM and L2S  laboratories. Each group addresses the different aspects of the modelling  approach and confront reality through a cell culture training.  Updates will be held daily: sharing of information, methodological input,  additional courses. The training course ends with a debriefing session  (14/11/2022 afternoon) in front of ESA Engineers.     Grading  The final mark depends on: individual assiduity, group involvement,  relevance of the multiphysics model, control strategy of the bioreactor,  final design of the bioreactor, presentation, report.     Course support, bibliography  Presentation slides, scientific and technical articles will be provided during  the course.     Resources   Teaching staff: H. Duval (Professor, CS, Département MEP, LGPM) S.  Tebbani (Professor, CS, Département MEP, L2S), B. Taidi (Professor, CS,  Département MEP, LGPM).  Maximum enrolment: 30  Software, number of licenses required: Matlab Simulink (30)  Equipment, specific classrooms (department and room capacity): biology  preparation room (LGPM)       Learning outcomes covered on the course  At the end of the course, the students will be able to:  1. size a bioreactor;  2. establish a multiphysics model by aggregating knowledge from different  scientific fields (biology, transport phenomena, biochemical engineering);  3. propose a relevant control strategy;  4. keep a critical eye on a model and test its robustness.   379      5. perform cultivation to estimate the proliferation kinetics of a  microorganism strain;  6. provide a comprehensive presentation of a complete control strategy  combining modeling, estimation, and control strategies.       Description of the skills acquired at the end of the course  -    C1.1, Analyze: study a system as a whole, the situation as a whole.  Identify, formulate and analyze a system within a transdisciplinary  approach with its scientific, economic, human dimensions, etc. Milestone 1  -    C1.2, Modeling: using and developing the appropriate models, choosing  the correct modeling scale and the relevant simplifying assumptions.  Milestone 2  -    C2.3, Identify and independently acquire new knowledge and skills.  Milestone 2  -    C4.2, Propose one or more solutions answering the question rephrased  in terms of value creation and complemented by the impact on other  stakeholders and by taking into account other dimensions. Quantify the  value created by these solutions. Arbitrate between possible solutions.  Milestone 1  -    C7.1, Basically: Structure ideas and arguments, be synthetic  (assumptions, objectives, expected results, approach, and value created).  Milestone 2  -    C7.2, On the relationship with others: Understand the needs and  expectations of his interlocutors evolutionarily. Encourage interactions, be  a teacher, and create a climate of trust. Milestone 2   380   