   ST7- 74 - OPTIMIZATION OF PASSENGER TRANSPORT   SYSTEMS     Dominante :  Info&Num  (Computer  Science  &  Digital),  GSI  (Large  Interacting  Systems)  Langue d’enseignement : French  Campus où le cours est proposé : Paris-Saclay     Engineering problem   Transportation systems are essential to today's society because they provide  crucial  mobility  services  for  both  personal  and  business  travel.  The  massification of travel and the diversity of mobility services, as well as new  autonomous  vehicles,  make  these  systems  complex  to  size,  design  and  operate.    The optimization of such systems is therefore essential. For an airline, it is  particularly important to be able to :  -  take  advantage  of  available  information  to  forecast  demand  on  "origindestination" routes and define flight schedules that best cover the demand,  - Pricing flights to ensure the best possible fill rate and revenue management  for the company,   - to size the services (check-in, baggage, ...) at the hubs allowing to operate  the flight plans,   -  planning  flight  crew  schedules  in  accordance  with  legislation  and  crew  preferences,  - assigning aircraft to flights in order to minimize costs, and being robust to  possible delays.   Beyond the ability to operate efficiently, the engineer's role is also to inform  strategic  decisions  through  quantitative  models  evaluating  different  scenarios in which a company might choose to engage.   Adviced prerequisites   SIP and Algorithms and Complexity Course   Context and issue modules:  These modules include an introductory lecture  on the topic, presentations on the technological and scientific challenges of  passenger transport optimization, and a presentation of related projects.   Specific course (60 HEE) : Decision support / Operational research (AD/OR)   Brief description : Optimization and decision making is an intrinsic activity  of  the  engineer/manager  profession.  In  order  to  understand  the  complex  decision problems they will be confronted with, tomorrow's engineers and   523         managers must have the concepts and methods of optimization to formalize  a  decision  problem.  The  course  aims  at  introducing  a  certain  number  of  classical  models  allowing  to  represent  and  solve  decision  problems  in  different  contexts.  The  aim  is  to  present  models  of  different  concrete  decision problems.   Project: The project aims at putting the students in a real situation of solving  a  decision  problem  involving  the  formulation  of  a  model,  the  choice  of  a  resolution method(s), the implementation of a solution allowing a resolution  on  real  data  sets,  the  validation  of  the  solution  by  numerical  tests.    The  objective of the project through this activity is to make the students progress  in  the  comprehension  of  the  scientific,  technical,  but  also  human  and  economic  stakes  which  underlie  the  implementation  of  a  project  of  operational research and decision support in an organization.     Project n°1: Optimization of rail transport operations   - Associate partner: SNCF   - Location: Paris-Saclay   -  Brief  description:  In  rail  transport,  the  implementation  of  passenger  service  involves  dealing  with  various  operational  management  problems:  forecasting passenger demand, designing timetables, pricing seats, assigning  trains  to  platforms  in  a  station…  These  examples  involve  optimizing  the  operation of the transport system. The project will deal with one of these  rail operations management issues.   Project n°2: Optimization of an airline's operations   - Associate partner: Air France - Operational Research / Artificial Intelligence  Group   - Location: Paris-Saclay campus   - Brief description: This project deals with one of the multiple problems of  managing  the  operations  of  an  airline  company:  for  example,  assigning  flights to boarding gates, placing passengers in a plane, assigning planned  flights to a fleet of planes, etc.   Project n°3 : Planning of a mobile team   - Associated partner: Decision Brain   - Location: Paris-Saclay campus   -  Brief  description  :  The  aim  of  this  project  is  to  design  and  implement  a  planning tool for a mobile team of technicians, initially planned to create the  daily routes of 500 technicians who have to carry out some 10 000 tasks.   524   