   2EL2140 - Strategy, Marketing and Organization       Instructors: Éléonore MOUNOUD  Department: DÉPARTEMENT SCIENCES HUMAINES ET SOCIALES  Language of instruction: FRANCAIS  Campus: CAMPUS DE PARIS - SACLAY  Workload (HEE): 60  On-site hours (HPE): 35,00  Elective Category : Business Sciences  Advanced level : Yes      Description  This course allows students to implement in a relevant and reasoned way  the  principal  models  of  strategy  and  marketing.  It  develops  the  notion  of  business  model  and  how  to  use  it  to  account  for  past  and  future  transformations of businesses and companies. The strategic issues related  to  the  development  of  services,  the  globalization  of  value  chains,  and  innovation are thus addressed through case studies. The societal challenges  of digital transformation and ecological transition as well as their impact on  business  models  will  also  be  addressed  (circular  economy).  The  course  invites the students to a personal reflection on the complementarity but also  the rivalry between these two transitions based on case studies presented  by lecturers on the digital transition, the energy transition and the scarcity  of resources (sobriety principle).     Quarter number  SG6     Prerequisites (in terms of CS courses)  Business management course: marketing mix, PESTEL analysis, SWOT  analysis, Ansoff matrix, business development modes, value chain, Porter’s  5 forces analysis, generic strategies  Start up Week : définition du business model canvas       Syllabus  1. Nespresso case study / detail of business model components  2. Conference on Global Coffee Sector Analysis (The Basic) / Globalization  of CGV Value Chains / Social Costing  3. Case Study Michelin Solutions / Strategies in Services / TCO Calculation /  Functionality Concept  4. Tesla case study / innovation management  5. SKF Case Study / Understanding B to B Marketing and Globalization   180      6. Bastien Sibille on the platform economy and its impacts: issues,  governance, notion of the digital commons  7. Introduction to anthropology of the digital and the economy of  attention, Maxime Blondeau  8/9/10/11. WORKSHOP Business for Climate Convention (40 students)  Quantification of business models (80 students)  12. Written exam       Class components (lecture, labs, etc.)   lectures 8 hours  case studies 10 hours  conferences 6 hours  workshop 9 hours  written exam 2 hours, oral exam 1 hour     Grading  Preparation of the sessions (5 reading notes prior to the case studies),  Assessment: participation in case studies (30%), workshop deliverables  (30%), written exam (40%)     Course support, bibliography  Strategor     Resources    Eléonore Mounoud, responsable du cours   Patrick Pichant, consultant, ex directeur marketing Arcelor, chargé de cours  Marie France Crevecoeur, Head of Professional Services and Solution  Delivery chez Philips, chargée de cours  Alain Honnart, ex directeur industriel Vallourec, directeur Métal Value  Fedi Soyah consultant de EY Parthenon  Bastien Sibille on digital platform economy  Maxime Blondeau on digital anthropology       Learning outcomes covered on the course  At the end of this course, students will be able to:  • Formulate the positioning and value proposition of a company to its  customers  • Detail the business model of a company and to diagnose its coherence  • Identify the challenges of internal or external transformations  (transitions) relevant to a company and how to respond to them  • Define a logic of transformation of a company (services, innovation,  globalization, transitions) towards a more sustainable model    181        Description of the skills acquired at the end of the course   CentraleSupelec competences:  C4.1 :Think in client terms, identify and analyse customer needs, the  constraints of other stakeholders including societal challenges.  C4.2: Know how to identify the value that a given solution affords a client  and the market. To be able to detect opportunities and seize them.  C9.2,: Identify, within a given structure, the scope of liability as well as  socio-ethical an environmental responsibilities.  C9.4 : Demonstrate rigour and critical thinking in approaching problems  from all angles, be they scientific, social or economic.   182   