   2IN2100 - Communicate on sustainable research   projects     Instructors: François CLUZEL, Bich-Lien Doan  Department: DÉPARTEMENT GÉNIE INDUSTRIEL ET OPÉRATIONS  Language of instruction: FRANCAIS  Campus: CAMPUS DE PARIS - SACLAY  Workload (HEE): 45  On-site hours (HPE): 27,00  Elective Category : Fundamental Sciences  Advanced level : No      Description  At the heart of the environmental crisis we are experiencing, transmitting  and disseminating scientific and technical knowledge is a major expertise for  engineers  and  researchers.  This  course  is  a  life-size  initiation  to  scientific  mediation:  in  the  space  of  one  week,  the  objective  is  to  appropriate,  popularize,  and  format,  via  different  media,  a  scientific  and  research  discourse. By working on a real research project carried out by a researcher,  the  aim  is  to  enhance  its  value  by  designing  a  tailor-made  scientific  mediation tool.  This  course,  which  follows  the  Vive  la  Recherche!  2021  event,  aims  to  introduce  students  to  scientific  mediation  through  an  active  pedagogy  involving sustainable research projects, researchers, experts in the field and  an  audience  in  a  real  environment.  It  will  be  punctuated  by  lectures  by  accomplished popularizers.  Scientific mediation is a discipline that consists in establishing a link between  the  scientific  world  and  society.  It  is  as  much  about  popularization  and  dissemination of scientific culture as it is about ethical or political dialogues.  This discipline is therefore aimed as much at the general public who wish to  satisfy their curiosity or make decisions as citizens, as at policy makers who  must  understand  the  scientific  world  and  appropriate  its  knowledge.  Engineers trained at CentraleSupélec, through the variety of their scientific  skills and their familiarity with technical, economic and societal issues, are  in a favorable position to participate in this mediation.    In this course, the topics addressed by the speakers and students will all be  related  to  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals,  which  represent  a  particularly important issue for scientific mediation in our time, and to which  it is essential to raise the awareness of the general public and the political  class.   Quarter number  semaine bloquée de SG6    640        Prerequisites (in terms of CS courses)  A  strong  motivation!  This  week  requires  a  significant  commitment  to  produce a mediation medium that is equal to the quality of the speakers and  experts solicited.     Syllabus  Detailed course outline :  o Introduction to the course, its objectives and organization  o Presentation of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) set out by the  UN in its Agenda 2030, contextualization, need for mediation and the main  tools of scientific popularization  o Lectures and discussions led by two great witnesses, mediators or  accomplished popularizers: discover the environment of scientific  mediation, its habits and methods, learn the basics of mediation and the  advice of experts, discover the behind-the-scenes of major projects  o Scientific popularization project on a target medium: students meet with  CentraleSupélec researchers and take ownership of their research project,  then choose a type of media to present this work to a non-specialist  audience or to the general public. In addition to the researchers, the  students are accompanied by the course supervisors and by experts in  popularization or mediation, specialists in the media they have chosen.    Organization of the course   The elective is coordinated by a team of supervisors in order to ensure  coherence from the introductory course to the project defense.  - Monday :   o Morning: Introduction and presentation of the week's issues, mediation  tools  o Afternoon: Project exchange, meeting between researchers and  students, led by the supervisors of the elective. Choice of topics and media  - Tuesday:   o Morning: Conference and discussion with a major witness  o Afternoon: Beginning of the work in project mode, with coaching by the  supervisors and intervention of a media expert  o CHALLENGE: My Project in 180 seconds  - Wednesday :   o Morning: Conference and discussion with a major witness  o Afternoon: Project mode work coached by the supervisors and  intervention of an expert  - Thursday :   Morning: Work in project mode coached by the supervisors and  intervention of an expert.  - Friday :    641      - Morning: Finalization of the project   - Afternoon: Project presentation and defense     Class components (lecture, labs, etc.)  - Conference and discussion with a major witness  - Work in project mode, with coaching by the supervisors and the  intervention of a media expert  - CHALLENGE: My Project in 180 seconds     Grading  Evaluation on the quality of the project, as well as the quality of the end-ofweek presentation. Evaluation by peers and by the supervisory team.      Resources  Slides of the supervisors and experts     Learning outcomes covered on the course  - Create a simple outreach material for a specific audience   - Carry out a popularization project, from the research of ideas to the  presentation of the material   - Know the stakes of scientific communication, in the context of sustainable  development   - Evaluate the quality of a popularized information, and know how to  correct or improve it if necessary   - Describe the different environments favourable to scientific  communication, their advantages and their habits   - Use research to transmit their knowledge to a non-initiated public     Description of the skills acquired at the end of the course  - C1.1 Study a problem and the situation as a whole. Identify, formulate  and analyze a problem in its scientific, economic and human dimensions   - C3.5 Propose new solutions/tools either in rupture or in continuous  progress   - C6.7 Exploit the possible connections between objects and people   - C7.1 Convince on the substance. Be clear about the objectives and  expected results. Be rigorous about the hypotheses and the approach.  Structure his/her ideas and arguments. Highlight the value created   - C7.4 Master spoken, written and body language. Master basic  communication techniques   - C9.2 Perceive the field of responsibility of the structures to which one  contributes, by integrating the environmental, social and ethical  dimensions   - C9.4 Demonstrate rigor and critical thinking in the approach of problems  from all angles, scientific, human and economic  642   