                                 SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING   CHALLENGE N°7 COURSES   501   ST7 - 71 - STOCHASTIC FINANCE AND RISK MODELLING      Major : MDS (Mathematics, Data Sciences)   Language of Instruction : English   Campus : Paris-Saclay      Engineer problem   The financialization of the economy is a remarkable phenomenon in the past  thirty years, which pushes financial markets to the heart of the globalized  economy. Accordingly, risk management by financial institutions is crucial to  the economy as a whole.    The  subject  aims  to  introduce  the  fundamental  concepts  of  financial  risk  management to students, and in particular the corresponding mathematical  aspects. This module will allow the students to be familiar with stochastic  models  of  asset  pricing  in  discrete  time,  to  discover  common  derivative  products  and  to  address  real  issues  of  risk  management.  For  engineers  working in the financial industry, the understanding and full control of these  models are essential.   Prerequisites   Students are required to have followed the courses CIP, PDE and Algorithms  and complexity. The knowledge of measure theory (found in CIP) is essential,  e.g.  sigma-algebra,  measurable  space,  measure/probability,  conditional  expectation, etc.   Nevertheless, the ST4 Data and Statistics in Finance is NOT necessary.   Modules  and  challenges :  A  series  of  conferences  will  present  different  fields of financial risk management methods and their applications. Themes  and speakers may change every year. Conferences may deal with :  -  derivatives products ;  -  asset management: portfolio allocation and risk management ;  -  actuarial science and risk management of insurance ;  -  commodities and energy markets ;  -  etc.   Specific course (60 HEE) : Modeling of financial risks   -  Quick  description  :  This  course  is  an  introduction  to  discrete  time  financial  mathematics.  It  deals  in  particular  with  the  valuation  and  hedging of derivative products as well as risk management in a stochastic  discrete time framework.   502      Content :  Discrete  time  market  models.  Arbitrage.  European  derivatives.  Complete/uncomplete  market.  Evaluation.  Hedging.  Risk  measurs  and  portfolio optimization. American derivatives.   Tutor  class  (TD) :  Various  questions/problems  arising  in  finance  are  formulated  language.  Theorems/tools/techniques  presented during the course are needed to solve them.    in  mathematical   Homework (TP) : Homework is in general in the format of a project. It makes  students have a deeper understanding the goal of this course and requires  them to apply the results to solve problems in practice.    Project : Financial risk management   -  Associate partners : Industrial partners may change every year. Recent  partners include BNP Paribas, Generali, Volga Technologies, ODDO BHF,  etc.   -  Location : Paris-Saclay   -  Quick description :  Students enrolled in this course are asked to study a  quantitative method in a financial risk management setting. Subjects are  proposed by an industrial or academic partner.   Goals: to be able to model problems of financial risk management, to be able  to implement numerical solutions.   Each  project  deals  with  a  quantitative  method  for  risk  management,  e.g.,  pricing  or  hedging  of  a  financial  product,  or  asset  allocation,  portfolio  management,  client  portfolio  analysis,  etc.  Real  financial  or  client  data  is  provided  by  the  project  partner.  Each  project  requires  the  coding  of  the  method investigated.   Students will work in groups (group formation rules will be specified at the  start of the ST).   Evaluation :  Students  will  be  graded  respectively  for  the  course  and  the  project.   -  Course : The score is given as max(0.5*x+0.5*y, y), where x stands for the  score of homework (TP) and y is the score of final exam. More details can  be found during the first class or in Edunao.     -  Project :  Final  grade  is  decided  after  an  oral  presentation,  by  a  jury   including the industrial supervisor.    503   