   2IN2180 - Procurement management       Instructors: Thierry Reboud  Department: DÉPARTEMENT SCIENCES HUMAINES ET SOCIALES  Language of instruction: ANGLAIS  Campus: CAMPUS DE PARIS - SACLAY  Workload (HEE): 40  On-site hours (HPE): 27,00  Elective Category : Business Sciences  Advanced level : No      Description  This program intends to provide students with basic knowledge and skills to  master  the  main  purchasing  processes  in  which  they  will  be  involved  whatever function they will perform in a company.    As  future top  managers,  students will  be  able to  evaluate the  full  benefit  they  can  expect  from  the  purchasing  Function,  and  to  identify  the  main  drivers to monitor and leverage the relations with suppliers (organization,,  purchasing policy, performance assessment, targets...)       Quarter number  Intensive week at the end of the SG8     Prerequisites (in terms of CS courses)  No prerequisite     Syllabus  The program is split into several modules   1 - What is Purchasing? Target is to introduce the basic concepts  (Vocabulary clarification, purpose of purchasing, Scope of activity...)  2 - Purchasing policy - Marketing approach. Target is to explain the  concept of “purchasing strategy” (why?, What?, How?)  3 - Pricing. Target is to fully understand the fundamnetal gap between  "cost" and "selling price"  4 - RFQ - Supplier selection. Target is to understand the 4 steps of the  selection process, how to choose the relevant criteria to evaluate  quotations, and how to organize the selection   5 - Make or Buy. Target is to understand the various aspects to be  considered for a Make or Buy decision, and how to process it  6 - Legal. Target is to provide the legal background requested in the   643      purchasing activity, and identify the main legal risks related to purchasing  7 - IP. Target is to highlight the importance of IP protection, and explain  how to secure IP in the relations with suppliers  8 - Negotiation. Targets are :      to understand why and how to prepare negotiations, identify the  successful negotiation behaviours for a buyer,       to provde background about some specific negotiation situations  (conflicting, multicultural, negotiation team..)      to give an overview on "auction" tools.  9 - Supplier assessment - Sustainability. Target is to identify the list of  useful criteria, to understand how to perform such assessment, and to give  some financial background to detect a the sustainability risks.  10 - Value creation - Performance. Target is to explain the purpose of the  purchasing performance assessment, and how to implement it, what is  “value” for a company, what are the KPI, how to choose them   11 - Ethic & Management : Targets are to identify the main successful skills  and qualities for a purchasing function, and to give an overview about the  main ethical issues that may result from relations with suppliers.      Grading  The students grade is the result of 2 grades of identical 'weight':  The first one measure active participation to the course (presence in class  and active interventions during the course or case reviews)  The second one results from a case analysis done outside class, individually  of in teams.      Resources  The sessions combine formal review of the subject matter, plus reviews of  one or several case studies which have been distributed in advance for  preparation by the students. The purpose of these studies is to understand  how theory has to be sometime adapted to match 'real life situations'.     Learning outcomes covered on the course   On completion of the course, students should be able to:    - Identify and monitor the key purchasing processes   - Elaborate a purchasing policy consistent with the company strategy  - identify the main risks outcoming from relations with suppliers  - Assess suppliers and compare quotations, according to the most relevant  criteria for the considered business.  - Prepare and perform negotiations  - Identify the created value that can be leveraged through the bargaining  power       644   