   2EL1820 - Biomechanics and life materials       Instructors: Elsa Vennat  Department: DÉPARTEMENT MÉCANIQUE ENERGÉTIQUE PROCÉDÉS  Language of instruction: FRANCAIS  Campus: CAMPUS DE PARIS - SACLAY  Workload (HEE): 60  On-site hours (HPE): 35,00  Elective Category : Engineering Sciences  Advanced level : Yes      Description    The link between mechanics and life is much stronger than we might think  at first glance. Did you know that our bone tissue evolves and adapts  according to the mechanical load it is subjected to? This is important in our  daily life (regular moderate physical activity leads to better bone quality)  but also in medical care (how to replace or regenerate bone tissue after an  accident?).   In this course we will discuss the links between mechanics and life, from  biomechanics to mechanobiology.   Tools will first be put in place to describe, model and solve a mechanical  problem where living materials are involved: reminders of Continuous  Media Mechanics, anisotropy of natural composites, viscoelasticity of soft  tissues, introduction and application of the finite element method to solve  problems of increasing complexity.   In a second phase, these tools will be used to characterise and model a  living material of your choice (bone, tooth, cells, wood...) in a series of  numerical and experimental assignments. Living materials are by nature  multi-scale. A complete approach will be taken to characterise and model  the chosen living material in three stages:    •  Bibliographic research (presentation of tools and research by group)  •  Observations at the various relevant scales: observation of samples   under the microscope, three-dimensional visualisation of the  microstructure, image processing and analysis.   •  Experimental study of material's behaviour (cells under stress, tissues   under loading, etc.), finite element modeling and critical analysis   All practical work can be switched to distance learning if needed.     Quarter number  SG8   Prerequisites (in terms of CS courses)   142         1EL5000 - Mécanique des milieux continus     Syllabus    •  Modeling the behaviour of materials:   •  Continuum Mechanics (recalls)  •  Anisotropy of natural composites  •  Viscoelasticity of soft tissues    •  Experimental and numerical approach:    o  Introduction to bibliographic research  o  (morphological and mechanical) characterization/modelling   of tissues or cells in an experimental and numerical way   •  Opening seminar with the participation of researchers working on   "Biomechanics" in the broad sense    Class components (lecture, labs, etc.)  12h course ; 21h pratical work     Grading  Continuous control (40% of the mark) ; oral and/or report on practical work  (60% of the mark)  The practical work sessions are mandatory.      Resources  Teacher : Elsa VENNAT   Softwares : Comsol Multiphysics, ImageJ (or FIJI)     Learning outcomes covered on the course   At the end of this course, the students will be able to, among other things:    -  describe the behaviour of biological tissues from experimental   -  use the symmetries of its morphology to propose a simplified form   curves,    for its rigidity matrix,    -  propose an experimental protocol to characterize a tissue in   tension/compression and to analyse the results of such a test,   -  describe the tests to characterize the viscoelasticity of a tissue,   -  propose a rheological model to model the viscoelastic behaviour of a   -  -   tissue,   conduct a bibliographic study,   characterize a porous biological tissue by image analysis using ImageJ  software,    -  propose a finite element model of this porous medium to evaluate its   Young's modulus or permeability   143   