   2IN1580 - Artificial intelligence and global health       Instructors: Bich-Lien Doan, Marie-Anne Lefebvre  Department: DÉPARTEMENT INFORMATIQUE  Language of instruction: ANGLAIS  Campus: CAMPUS DE RENNES, CAMPUS DE METZ, CAMPUS DE PARIS - SACLAY  Workload (HEE): 40  On-site hours (HPE): 27,00  Elective Category : Fundamental Sciences  Advanced level : No    Description  The  European  University  ALLIANCE  FOR  GLOBALHEALTH  (Eugloh)  is  composed  of  five  universities  (Saclay,  Porto,  Lund,  Munich,  Szeged).  They  share  the  ambition  of  combining  their  expertise  and  resources  in  Global  Health  to  offer  the  best  education  and  training  to  their  students.  A  pilot  university, not only innovative, but also fully conscious of its responsibilities  and ready to face societal challenges, in particular those related to Global  Health. Training students as future leaders, both as experts in their fields and  responsible citizens: curious, creative, and adaptable to diverse ecosystems  and cultural environments.A collaboration framework open to contributions  from all players and all fields concerned by Global Health.….    (see the brochure at https://www.eugloh.eu/about/vision-andobjectives/plaquette-EUGLOH-EN-page-par-page%20(1)%20(1).pdf)    This course is part of this alliance and offers students from five European  universities an introduction to AI issues applied to health and well-being.  During the week, students will receive a course on artificial intelligence to  understand more specialized interventions in the use of AI models in health  and wellness applications.  The  following  courses  will  be  given  in  the  form  of  lectures  or  interactive  workshops,  face-to-face  and  distance,  mixing  students  from  5  European  universities. This course will therefore both acquire skills and knowledge in  AI and health, but also an intercultural and international openness through  exchanges between research professors and students of the Eugloh alliance  The  European  University  ALLIANCE  FOR  GLOBALHEALTH  (Eugloh)  is  composed  of  five  universities  (Saclay,  Porto,  Lund,  Munich,  Szeged).  They  share  the  ambition  of  combining  their  expertise  and  resources  in  Global  Health  to  offer  the  best  education  and  training  to  their  students.  A  pilot  university, not only innovative, but also fully conscious of its responsibilities  and ready to face societal challenges, in particular those related to Global  Health. Training students as future leaders, both as experts in their fields and   637      at   the   brochure   https://www.eugloh.eu/about/vision-and responsible citizens: curious, creative, and adaptable to diverse ecosystems  and cultural environments.A collaboration framework open to contributions  from all players and all fields concerned by Global Health.….  (see  objectives/plaquette-EUGLOH-EN-page-par-page%20(1)%20(1).pdf)  This course is part of this alliance and offers students from five European  universities  an  introduction  to  AI  issues  applied  to  health  and  well-being.  During the week, students will receive a course on artificial intelligence to  understand more specialized interventions in the use of AI models in health  and wellness applications.  The  following  courses  will  be  given  in  the  form  of  lectures  or  interactive  workshops,  face-to-face  and  distance,  mixing  students  from  5  European  universities. This course will therefore both acquire skills and knowledge in  AI and health, but also an intercultural and international openness through  exchanges between research professors and students of the Eugloh alliance.     Quarter number  Intensive week at the beginning of SG6     Prerequisites (in terms of CS courses)  No prerequisites except the level of English to follow the lectures in  English.     Syllabus   •   Introduction (Prof : Fabrice Popineau) Artificial Intelligence (AI) is  the most powerful technology humans have ever had access to. AI  will revolutionize all aspects of our lives, of which healthcare is not  the least. But what exactly is AI ? We will see that this question is  more complex than one might think at first glance. From image  classification to knowledge processing to medical robotics, we will  see on selected examples that AI is diverse and cannot (yet) be  reduced to a one-fit-all technology. We will review the main AI  techniques, what they rely on and their field of application. As the  field is constantly growing, many questions are still open.   •  Wellness workshop at home (Prof : Catherine Soladié) No more TV  couch where you receive formatted information. Replace it with a  zone of action and interaction, to take care of yourself, your body  and your mind, at home ! After discovering some examples of  industrial or research concerts, we will invite you to imagine, in  groups, tomorrow's solutions that will allow you to take care of  your physical and mental health at home. What tools are needed ?  What role can AI play ? How can information taken at home be  returned to specialized services (sports coach, doctor, etc.) ? How  acceptable can these solutions be for their users? Because well 638      being is not reserved for gyms or yoga studios and health is not only  a matter for physiotherapists or hospitals, we will propose to  imagine how this can be integrated in your homes, in an ethical and  responsible scientific approach.   •  Course on parsimonious decomposition to aid diagnosis (Prof.   Clément Elvira) Chronic liver diseases are a major health problem in  our modern societies. However, nowadays the reference procedure  for diagnosis is based on biopsy, a potentially dangerous method  that cannot be repeated regularly. In this course, we will see how  "parsimonious decomposition" methods can be used to exploit  "vibrational spectroscopy" data in order to develop new noninvasive and inexpensive automatic diagnostic methods.   •  Lectures given by experts in the field of AI and global health.   (Eugloh Speakers)   •  Course on Ethical Issues. (Prof. Dr. Effy Vayena, Deputy head of   Institute of Translational Medicine). The Coronavirus pandemic has  shaken our lives, reminding us of the fragility of existence, and  bringing to the surface pressing ethical issues at individual,  collective and international levels. Such issues include clinical ethics  decisions regarding scarce healthcare resources allocation, the  dilemma of protecting public health vs. suspending individual rights,  and the research ethics question of testing vaccines without the  usual precautions.       Class components (lecture, labs, etc.)  Interactive workshops, courses and conferences     Grading  Evaluation by a final test in the form of a quiz associated with the various  interventions      Resources  Face-to-face/off-site at the Gif, Rennes or Metz campuses, off-site for  teachers from other Eugloh universities      Description of the skills acquired at the end of the course  •    C1.1 Study a problem as a whole, the situation as a whole. Identify,  formulate and analyze a problem in its scientific, economic and human  dimensions   •    C6.7 Exploit the possible connections between objects and people   •    C9.1 Analyze and anticipate the possible consequences of one's choices  and actions with respect to oneself, others and the environment  •    C9.4 Demonstrate rigour and critical thinking in the approach to  problems from all angles, scientific, human and economic  639   