   2EL2530 - Integrated MEMS sensors   integration  of  miniaturized  MEMS       Instructors: Jerome Juillard  Department: DÉPARTEMENT ÉLECTRONIQUE ET ÉLECTROMAGNÉTISME  Language of instruction: ANGLAIS  Campus: CAMPUS DE PARIS - SACLAY  Workload (HEE): 60  On-site hours (HPE): 35,00  Elective Category : Engineering Sciences  Advanced level : No      Description  In many application fields - automotive, medicine, aeronautics and defense,  telecommunications  or  consumer  electronics  (smartphones,  tablets)  -  the  development  or  (Micro-ElectroMechanical  Systems)  sensors  is  now  a  prerequisite for the  deployment of  connected applications. These devices are used as sensors (accelerometers,  gyroscopes, pressure sensors, microphones, etc.), actuators (inkjet printers,  optical  displays)  or  for  energy  conversion.  They  have  such  advantages  in  terms of reliability, consumption, metrology, dimensions and cost that they  have rapidly become essential (but invisible) elements of our daily lives since  the 1990s and will play an increasing role in our future.    This course covers theoretical and practical aspects, from the point of view  (multi-physical/multi-domain  modelling,  model  order  of  modelling  reduction),  physics  fundamental  metrological  techniques,  integration, packaging), and economics (profitability). It aims at providing a  comprehensive overview of the field, which will be of interest to students  with a taste for "beautiful physics" and for the design of complex systems,  and/or  those  who  wish  to  understand  the  large-scale  industrialization  of  integrated devices.    Gap-year  internships  at major  French  and  international  MEMS  companies  are offered each year.       Quarter number  SG6     Prerequisites (in terms of CS courses)  No particular pre-requisite.      fluidic,  (micro-manufacturing   (mechanical,  electrostatic,   technology   limits),   219      Syllabus  Lectures = 15 HPE   L1 - Overview of MEMS (applications: sensors, actuators, transducers, main  players)  L2 - Accelerometers and gyroscopes  L3 - Mechanics of MEMS  L4 - Transduction and interface 1  L5 - Transduction and interface 2  L6 - Dissipation  L7 - Fabrication  L8 - Integration and packaging  L9 - MEMS industry  L10 - Economics of MEMS    Labs = 9 HPE  Lab 1-2. Pendular accelerometer - Modeling and simulation with Coventor  (3h)  Lab 3-6. Resonant gyroscope - Modeling and simulation with Coventor (6h)    Projects = 9 HPE (examples)  Reverse engineering of a commercial 3-axis accelerometer  Critical study of a 2-axis resonant accelerometer  Electromechanical optimization of a MEMS resonator  Reduced-order modeling of a MEMS energy harvester  Bibliographical study (quartz vs. silicon)     Class components (lecture, labs, etc.)   Lectures (15h), labs (9h), projects (9h)  Lectures and documents in English. Handout available in French.       Grading  Multiple choice test on lectures / labs (50%) Project report (50%).  Skills C1 and C2 assessed through multiple choice exam + project grade  (excluding simulation part)  Skill C6 assessed through project grade (simulation part only)       Course support, bibliography  Practical MEMS, V. Kaajakari, Small Gear Publishing, 2009  Inertial MEMS, principles and practice, V. Kempe, Cambridge University  Press, 2011  Micro Mechanical Transducers, Pressure sensors, Accelerometers and  Gyroscopes, M.-H. Bao, Elsevier, 2000  Micromachined Transducers Sourcebook, G. T. A. Kovacs, McGraw-Hill,  1998    220        Resources   Coventor MEMS+ software (50 free licences granted by the company)       Learning outcomes covered on the course  Knowing the main types of MEMS sensors / actuators and their  applications  Knowing the main fabrication, integration and packaging processes of  MEMS devices  Knowing the main physical phenomena involved at the micro-scale  (mechanics, transduction, dissipation, noise)  Understanding how MEMS inertial sensors (accelerometers, gyroscopes)  work, from physics to electronics and control.  Being able to dimension such a system, and to simulate it using a  professional design tool     Description of the skills acquired at the end of the course  C1/C2/C6  221   