   2EL1810 - Structural Dynamics & Acoustics       Instructors: Didier Clouteau  Department: DÉPARTEMENT MÉCANIQUE ENERGÉTIQUE PROCÉDÉS  Language of instruction: ANGLAIS  Campus: CAMPUS DE PARIS - SACLAY  Workload (HEE): 60  On-site hours (HPE): 35,00  Elective Category : Engineering Sciences  Advanced level : Yes      Description   Vibrations and wave propagation play an key role in many areas:  geophysics, behaviour of civil engineering structure subjected to wind,  earthquakes or waves, stability and comfort of aeronautical and terrestrial  vehicles. Acoustics is also essential in the transportation vehicles for both  internal comfort and external noise.   The aim of this course is to provide students with essential knowledge,  methods and tools for the analysis and quantification of these phenomena  in structural dynamics and acoustics. It will be based on a set of casestudies to illustrate the fundamental concepts of resonance and radiation.       Quarter number  SG6     Prerequisites (in terms of CS courses)  No prerequisites. However, it is recommended to have followed the course  of mechanics of continuous media or a course on waves.     Syllabus   1.  Dynamic response of an oscillator, principle of vibration reduction   2.  Mechanical and acoustic waves and resonances (Lecture and   (Lecture and tutorial)   tutorial)   3.  Vibrations of beams (Lecture and tutorial)  4.  Case-study 1: vibration of bridges  5.  Construction of reduced Multi-Degree-Of-Freedom models in   dynamics (Lecture and tutorial) & reminder on continuum  mechanics ( self-taught)   6.  Case-study 2.1: building under wind and earthquake loads (reduced   models)   140      7.  Case-study 2.2 : building under wind and earthquake loads (Finite   element models)   8.  Introduction to advanced dynamic models (Lecture and tutorial)  9.  Acoustic radiation (Lecture and tutorial)   10.  Acoustic resonance (Lecture and tutorial)  11.  Case-study 3: Analysis of a scientific paper  12.  Final exam    Class components (lecture, labs, etc.)  S1-S3, S5, S8-S9 : lectures and tutorials  S4, S6-S7, S11:  Case studies     Grading   2-hr written exam (weight 0.55) + Case studies ( weight 0.15 each)       Course support, bibliography  Lecture notes +course slides      Resources   Lectures will be given in French and recorded lectures in English will be  made available to students.  Tutorial classes: 35 students with at least one in French and one in English.  Software: Comsol Multiphysics and Python notebook     Learning outcomes covered on the course    Completing this course students will be able to:   - model the dynamic behaviour of structures using a relevant model : (3D ,  beams,...)  -model the acoustic behaviour of an enclosure and the radiation patern of  a acoustic source or an open system.  - model transient and random environmental loads (Wind , seism...)  - build a low frequency surrogate model to solve practical vibration or  acoustic problems.     Description of the skills acquired at the end of the course  C1.2 Ability to model the dynamic behaviour of a structure    C1.2 Ability to model random external loads ( Wind, earthquakes)   C1.2 Ability to model simple acoustic problems   C1.3 Ability to solve vibration and acoustic problems in the low frequency  domain using a modal approach, either in the time or in the frequency  domain   141   