   2EL1230 - Embedded space systems       Instructors: Laurent Bourgois  Department: DÉPARTEMENT ÉLECTRONIQUE ET ÉLECTROMAGNÉTISME  Language of instruction:   Campus: CAMPUS DE PARIS - SACLAY  Workload (HEE): 60  On-site hours (HPE): 35,00  Elective Category : Engineering Sciences  Advanced level : No      Description  On-board  space  systems  are  complex  systems  developed  for  satellites,  launchers or Mars rovers. They integrate hardware and software that must  be robust and reliable to guarantee the success of space missions that will  face a very hostile environment, especially radiation.  All  these  aspects,  from  strategic  issues  and  missions  to  the  detailed  architecture of satellites, will be discussed with one objective: to acquire a  global vision without sacrificing technical aspects.  A visit to Airbus Space Electronics will conclude this module and will allow to  see in situation the concepts presented during the course.       Quarter number  SG6     Prerequisites (in terms of CS courses)  This course can be approached without any particular prerequisite for a  domain. All necessary technical concepts will be explained during the  module.     Syllabus  Presentation of space missions and systems  History and market of space.  Different types of space missions, launchers and orbits, satellites and  manned flights.  The constraints of the space environment.    The satellite system  Description of a satellite: platform and payload.  Focus on automatic attitude and orbit control, thermal control and  radiation.    On-board digital electronics   79      Specificity of space electronic systems. On-board functions.  Design of electronic boards and components (ASIC/FPGA).  Radiation hardening.    On-board software  The different on-board processing. Processors, memories and architectures  used.  Focus on robustness, reliability, real time.  Validation of on-board software. Hardware/Software co-design.    Communications  Communication buses used (e.g. 1553 bus).  Payload and ground-to-air links: remote control and telemetry.  Link assessment and perspectives.    Energy management - Power  Solar panels, battery, electric propulsion, converters, power regulation,  motor controls and actuators.  Mission profiles, eclipse management. Worst-case studies, stress share.    Reliability - Validation of space systems  Guaranteeing mission performance.  Redundancies. Fault tolerance: detection, decision, correction,  reconfiguration, non propagation.  Ground testing and validation of space systems.    Visit of an industrial site  Airbus Defense and Space (Élancourt): engineering and clean rooms.    Translated with www.DeepL.com/Translator (free version)       Class components (lecture, labs, etc.)  Lectures given by different industry speakers for each module, experts in  their field.     Grading  Evaluation in the form of a presentation on a topic related to space.      Resources  Teaching team composed of a CentraleSupélec referent (Laurent Bourgois)  and speakers from industry (Airbus Defense and Space), experts in their  field.     Learning outcomes covered on the course  At the end of this module, students will have a global knowledge of space  systems and will be able to intervene in the design of an embedded system   80      operating in a hostile environment. They will understand how to cope with  mechanical, thermal, radiative and electromagnetic stresses.  Emphasis will also be placed on the variety of activities related to  embedded systems and on the interfaces with related professions: from  silicon to the complete system, including software, validation and  telecoms.       Description of the skills acquired at the end of the course  C1: Analyse, design and build complex systems.  C2: Develop skills in an engineering field and in a trade.   81   