   2EL2710 - Design your way   integrating  different       Instructors: Fabienne Berge  Department: DÉPARTEMENT DÉVELOPPEMENT PROFESSIONNEL ET MÉTIERS DE  L'INGÉNIEUR  Language of instruction: FRANCAIS  Campus: CAMPUS DE PARIS - SACLAY  Workload (HEE): 60  On-site hours (HPE): 35,00  Elective Category : Business Sciences  Advanced level : No      Description     This  course  covers  the  fundamentals  of  self-knowledge  (intellectual  and  relational functioning) and integrates the principles of Design Thinking in the  construction of one's choices and career path. It is based in particular on the  work of Stanford's Life Design Lab, which is well appreciated by students. It  allows you to work on self-esteem, and to prepare for important choices to  come.  It  also  offers  a  framework  for  learning  experiences  at  school  (in  class,  API  and  APP  workshops,  Student  organizations, sports highlights, etc.).  This course deals with the question of the freedom and responsibility of each  individual in his or her school career, his or her choices of orientation, or the  way to exercise his or her future profession as an engineer, based on guided  introspection/reflection on concrete situations exposed (group discussions,  videos,  theoretical  contributions).  It  leads  to  a  greater  awareness  and  capacity for individual questioning on the adequacy between one's actions  and  decisions,  and  one's  own  values.  It  gives  students  the  opportunity  to  take a step back and think about their life view and work view.     It  involves  a  significant  individual  commitment  and  work  (readings,  and  Inter-Sessional Works).    Elective objectives: awareness of one's own individual functioning as well as  that of others, for better autonomy and resilience in the face of choices and  different stages of student and professional life. Awaken students to what  influences  their  decision-making,  as  soon  as  they  make  their  choices  of  curriculum  and  employment.  Gain  clarity,  self  confidence,  and  ability  to  inspire trust.      Quarter number  SG6 (in intensive week) and SG8      233      Prerequisites (in terms of CS courses)  None     Syllabus   1 - My past and present: Self-knowledge module with an Introduction that  notes the difficulty of connecting with oneself (ref to Edgard Morin and  Henri Bergson) in today's volatile, complex, uncertain world - Myers Briggs  Type Indicator (MBTI) well recognized preference questionnaire that allows  us to identify our inner preferences (in everyday life, with others, in our  work environments) - Course on multiple intelligences : identify your  resources among the 8 different forms of intelligence identified (cf Howard  Gardner’s model)  in order to make the best use of them - Time to reflect  on your values and motivational drivers to put at the heart of your life plan  - time to integrate the different learning (courses, API, APP, student  organizations, sports, company meetings, internship op...).   2 - My future: Use the Design Thinking tools and mindset to discover and  develop the ability to generate new ideas when faced with a choice, and to  adopt the right attitude at the end of a cycle (end of studies, end of a job or  internship) in order to prepare to rebound towards the next cycle - Writing  exercise  (life  view  /  work  view)  -  Reflection  work  on  3  possible  future  scenarios (5-year period Odyssey plan).      Class components (lecture, labs, etc.)  Mix of theoritical and practical sessions. Mix of individual work and small  group discussions. Training sessions to pitch on a project. Learning of  graphic thinking tools/ visual dashboard design to work on possible  scenarios - Video production - Book reading.     Grading   Presence - Involvement - Personal and team productions (essays + video)  after each TD - book readings and presentations    Resources   - Teaching team (names of the teachers of the lectures): Fabienne Bergé -  Catherine Chapuis  - Size of the TDs (default 35 students): 35 students maximum       Learning outcomes covered on the course    At the end of this course, the student will be able to : make better choices,  introduce yourself to recruiters, be less dependent on others, be agile in a  volatile and uncertain world where you need to know where you stand,  better assess your priorities and acquire good reflexes to manage the   234      breaks or rebounds to be made during your professional life, acquire a  better ability to step back, develop your ability to generate ideas.   Skills Worked: C3, C7.2, C7.3, C9      Description of the skills acquired at the end of the course  C3 : Act, engage, innovate within a scientific and technological  environment  C7.2 : Persuade through interpersonal relations to understand the needs  and expectations of multiple participants in a dialogue, elicit reactions and  create a climate of trust  C7.3 : Persuade by working on oneself; to be at ease within any  environment, to work with both confidence and empathy, managing one’s  emotions and using communicative strategies.  C9 : Think and act as an accountable ethical professional   235   