   2EL5110 - Light to understand matter       Instructors: Ninel Kokanyan  Department: CAMPUS DE METZ  Language of instruction: ANGLAIS  Campus: CAMPUS DE METZ  Workload (HEE): 60  On-site hours (HPE): 35,00  Elective Category : Fundamental Sciences  Advanced level : Yes      Description   There are many different characterization techniques that use light. Optical  characterization techniques are generally non-destructive, fast and simple  to  implement,  requiring  very  little  sample  preparation.  These  methods  explore the change of intensity, energy, phase, direction or polarization of  the  light  wave  after  interaction  with  the  object  under  study.  These  techniques are now in great demand in the industrial world (quality control,  surface  characterization,  atmospheric  studies,  food,  biomedical  and  pharmaceutical analyzes, etc.).  The main purpose of this lecture is to address the most relevant examples  of  optical  techniques  with  a  focus  on  their  applicability,  usefulness  and  limitations. During the  lecture  will  be presented  different techniques that  can be used in a complementary way and the obstacles that are frequently  noticed  during  their  use.  Examples  of  practical  and  real  applications  will  illustrate  these  points,  offering  suggestions  on  how  it  is  possible  to  avoid  obstacles as much as possible.     Quarter number  SG6     Prerequisites (in terms of CS courses)  1SL3000 - Lecture of quantum physics 1A     Syllabus    1.  Introduction  2.  Light scattering  3.  UV-VIS-NIR spectrophotometry   4.  Ellipsometry  5.  Interferometry  6.  Reflectometry  7.  Photoluminescence   271      8.  Infrared spectroscopy and Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy   (FTIR)   9.  Raman spectroscopy   10.  Applications of optical techniques  11.  Examples of applications in industry, biology, medicine,   nanomaterials,...    Class components (lecture, labs, etc.)  20h of lectures, 6h of tutorials and 8h of practical work     Grading  Continuous assessment: QUIZ (25%), project (25%), final written exam  (50%). In case of a justified absence to one of the intermediary  examinations, the grade of this latter is replaced by the grade of the final  examination.     Course support, bibliography  Mauro Sardela, Practical Materials Characterization, Springer-Verlag New  York (2014)  Jin Zhong Zhang, Optical Properties and Spectroscopy of  Nanomaterials, World Scientific (2009)  Peter Lasch and Janina Kneipp, Biomedical Vibrational Spectroscopy,  A  JOHN WHILEY & SONS, INC.  (2007)     Resources  LMOPS Laboratory equipments  Teaching team : Ninel Kokanyan, Thierry Aubert       Learning outcomes covered on the course   •  To be aware of different optical techniques  •  To be aware of the operating principles of different spectroscopic   components   •  Design and realize a device for optical measure  •  Be able to interpret obtained spectroscopic results  •  Identify the characterization technique suited for given material as   well as for studied parameter    Description of the skills acquired at the end of the course   C1.2 : Develop and use appropriate models, choosing the correct modeling  scale and simplifying assumptions when addressing problem  C2.1 : Thoroughly master a domain or discipline based in the fundamental  sciences or the engineering sciences  C3.4 : Take decisions in an environment that may not be fully transparent,  embracing the unexpected and calculating risk.   272   