   2EL5080 - Robust electronic and embedded systems       Instructors: Jean-Louis Gutzwiller  Department: CAMPUS DE METZ  Language of instruction: FRANCAIS  Campus: CAMPUS DE METZ  Workload (HEE): 60  On-site hours (HPE): 35,00  Elective Category : Fundamental Sciences  Advanced level : Yes      Description   Many electronic systems are called embedded because they are part of a  larger  whole  by  interacting  with  the  world  around  them.  The  use  of  such  systems is so widespread that the fields of application are very varied and  the  economic  stakes  are  significant.  These  systems  require,  for  their  operations,  to  study  the  interactions  with  their  environment,  not  only  because of their function, but also because they can be disturbed by external  influences. It is therefore essential to consider supply and autonomy issues  (for  battery  operation  for  example),  temperature,  size,  reliability  or  component  lifespan.  These  issues  are  to  be  managed  both  in  terms  of  hardware design and software design.  In addition, electronic disturbances have become an important issue, so that  regulations require marketing approval.  This course will mainly focus on two points:      • programming microcontrollers for an application that must interact  with its environment in real time,      • the resistance of systems to electromagnetic disturbances according to  regulation: not being destroyed by unexpected powerful events, and  functioning normally in the presence of usual disturbing events.       Quarter number  SG8     Prerequisites (in terms of CS courses)  Signal processing course of the ST4 (1C4000). Having followed the 1st year  elective course of Electronic Systems (1EL8000) can be a plus.     Syllabus  Taking the example of a data acquisition system, this course addresses the  following concepts:      • Issues, economic context, regulation      • Theoretical aspects of signal acquisition and reconstruction, Shannon   265      and Nyquist theorems, out-of-band acquisition, I / Q acquisition      • Analog electronics for acquisition processing (amplifiers, multiplexers,  filters, converters)      • Basic digital processing and associated components; programming for  real-time processing      • Fragility of the components and solutions considered      • Disturbances and proposed solutions     Class components (lecture, labs, etc.)    18h of lecture, 15h of tutorials, 2h of exam in case of a presentation (see :  méthodes d'évaluation).     Grading    Depending on the number of students registred in this course, the  evaluation wil consist in:   - An individual presentation addressing the themes of this course for a  particular component (if it is possible to organize the session)   - An individual report addressing the themes of this course for a particular  component (if there are too many students to organize the session).  Components will be proposed by the teacher, but students may choose  other components than those proposed (the approval of the teacher will  be required). The same component can only be presented by one student.    In case of insufficient initial examination, a remedial examination will be  proposed which will take the form of an individual report to be drawn up  (therefore the second form envisaged above for the initial examination).     Course support, bibliography    « Fonctions, composants et perturbations », Jean-Louis Gutzwiller,  Handout.      Resources   Lectures will be given to present the main concepts.  Applications will be tested on electronic cards during tutorial courses.    Tutorial groups size : 24 students       Learning outcomes covered on the course  • To know the disturbance mechanisms that can interfere with the  operation of embedded systems   266      • To know the classical solutions used to limit the effects of disturbances  • To choose between these different solutions to solve a given case  • To design embedded systems to be resistant to disturbances  • To specify a system with the people in charge of the design of the  electronic cards      Description of the skills acquired at the end of the course  C1 : Analyze, design, and build complex systems with scientific,  technological, human, and economic components  C2 : Develop in-depth skills in an engineering field and a family of  professions  C7 : Know how to convince   267   